Biography
====
Super Short
---
Open Knowledge Librarian/Fulbrighter @ NC State. Advocating for a more open, global knowledge ecosystem through community development.

Short
---
Micah Vandegrift’s research focuses on the evolution of policies and technologies that maximize the dissemination and impact of publicly engaged scholarship. Specifically, he is developing a concept of documentation as a form of scholarly communication, and exploring the evolving landscape of evaluating and validating new forms of scholarly output. As NC State University Libraries’ first Open Knowledge Librarian, Micah is dedicated to building programs and processes for the research and learning community to embrace a more open scholarly praxis. He is also the lead Principal Investigator for Visualizing Digital Scholarship in Libraries and Learning Spaces (Immersive Scholar) funded by a grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Recently, Micah studied open science policy and infrastructure in The Netherlands and Denmark as a Fulbright-Schuman Research Fellow, and previously worked as the Director of Digital Scholarship at Florida State University. 

Long
---
Micah Vandegrift is North Carolina State University Libraries first Open Knowledge Librarian. A team member in the Copyright and Digital Scholarship Center, he is tasked with developing strategic approaches to open research practices, policies, and programs at the Library and on campus. He is the lead Principal Investigator for Visualizing Digital Scholarship in Libraries and Learning Spaces (Immersive Scholar) a $414,000 grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to develop extensible models and programs for the creation and sharing of digital scholarship in large-scale and immersive visualization environments. The Immersive Scholar project aims to increase the impact of academic visualization environments and the scholarship created within them.

Micah joined NCSU Libraries in May 2018 after working in scholarly communications and digital scholarship at Florida State University (FSU) for 7 years. During his time at Florida State University Libraries, Micah coordinated the development and passage of a campus-wide open access policy and the launch of an open publications repository, participated in the establishment of a digital humanities research center and project development incubator, and collaborated with several psychology researchers on a National Institutes of Health grant proposal to build a data repository for learning disability research, which was awarded funding after Micah left FSU.

As a Fulbright-Schuman Research Fellow in 2018-2019, Micah researched the overlap between open science policy and technical infrastructure at three levels; in the European Union, nationally in The Netherlands and Denmark, and in the daily work of librarians in those countries. His project, titled “Open Scholarship Policies and Technologies: The European Research Library as a Model for Advancing Global Scholarly Communication,” was carried out at Maastricht University in The Netherlands and at the Royal Danish Library in Copenhagen. Micah explored how information policy responds to cultural shifts, why libraries are at the center of this sea change, and how the global library community can develop models to push toward a more open research ecosystem. The Fulbright fellowship allowed Micah to align his research interests in open infrastructure, transforming scholarly publishing, and the library as a hub for future-oriented research activity.

Micah lives and works in Raleigh, North Carolina with a wife and two young children. They enjoy hiking and camping, exploring nature and culture, watching soccer, and traveling. Micah is an amatuer backyard BBQ pitmaster, a former punk/hardcore musician, and a soccer player. He is the reigning Mr. Tattooed Tallahassee, and competed in the 2005 World Beard and Mustache Championships.
